inflation is still hot hot hot while the
news is mentioning that inflation is
declining we need to know the truth
about what's actually going on where is
this inflation heading I'm going to give
you the details and a little bit of a
misunderstood interpretation of the way
it all works I've got the news you need
to know right now beginning with this
inflation I'm gonna give you the updates
a few simple things number one back on
July 18th of this year I said quote on a
month-over-month basis we could start
seeing increases and of course that's
exactly what is happening right here
today now it has happened as the
favorable year-over-year effect is over
so remember where we were 2021 that ends
of 2022 inflation was going straight up
now that became a issue suddenly because
we were at basically no inflation or
negative inflation in the way that they
show it and suddenly it's going up so
that year over year stat is really
skewed but on the way down it works in
this way where hey everything's doing
better but now we are at that inflection
point and that's going to show up in the
information we have today right here
looking at it this is the CPI core
Services less shelter okay because a
shelter has to be right now the biggest
component of this and so you will see
that having such an impact even though
when we look at it in this way you can
see the data has shown that it has
started to tick up so when you're
looking at the line at the top that's
going to represent the year over year
and then you look at the bottom with the
green bars that's month over month okay
so it is still increasing right now
don't get it twisted this is showing us
the CPI month over month year over year
same Trend it happens to be just that
the shelter part of the inflation is
running hot
consecutive monthly declines in headline
CPI year over year I'm just showing you
that it was constantly constantly going
month after month of declines that has
changed that trend is now over at least
this one month so it broke that Trend
we'll see if that continues you could
see this right here Commodities less
food and energy year over year
this has certainly come down no no
question about it but the services less
Energy Services year over year so we are
still in this 6.1 we are still paying
way too much for services this is
incredible when you look at how much
we're paying today
um I just wanted to note the fact that
yes we do have the shelter being the
biggest contributor to what we're
experiencing now rents mortgages all of
the house prices everything to do with
the house in fact has gone up Furniture
prices Energy prices everything seems to
be more expensive we might be off the
peak we might not have shortages of just
about everything but certainly we are
looking at an interesting time and
prices are off the charts for some
people depending on where they are
this is just showing us some additional
information you could look at it month
over month you could look at it year
over year you get the trend we are
declining in this respect but understand
that we have shifted in a way that
suggests maybe just maybe inflation is
very sticky and what this means is that
part of the increase in prices that have
been going year over year month over
month will remain at this level maybe
even higher who knows and if it does
come down maybe it takes so long that
the Federal Reserve was actually right
could it be that we will experience
these levels of inflation their numbers
all the way through 2024 well only time
will tell I think when we look at this
type of data you might say to yourself
why are you looking at a CPI and core PC
ee knowing that that isn't even true
well I'm sure that your inflation rates
are not represented by this data right
and you've seen Shadow stats you've
looked at all these other indications of
inflation why would I cover this I've
said it before but I need to make this
clear every time it's quite frankly the
Federal Reserve
the government and businesses all move
based on this data they don't move based
on John Williams Shadow stats they don't
move based on other indicators they're
using this stuff so we got to know about
this but then we got to work twice as
hard because we also have to know the
real stuff
so this is what we are doing here we're
pulling the two shifts we're on the
double shift
shelter rent inflation year over year
change now that has come down but I need
to make this clear the prices are still
Rising but the level at which they are
rising has gone down like you can't say
this is declining it's the pay set which
is increasing is slowing down you got to
see that distinction and when somebody
makes that error as far as I'm concerned
well then they need to be uh let's just
say told the truth now I want to talk
really briefly here about the money
supply because these two go hand in hand
and as you will see money supply may be
reversing we're going to talk about that
really really quickly here I want to
show you what's going on with the money
supply this is in fact depending how you
look at it it is inflation when we see
it increasing and it is deflation when
that money supply comes down uh that has
an impact on the prices of everything
but again just like the inflation
it's not as if the money supply is
drastically falling as I'll show you in
this chart that's the growth that's the
rate of change so understand that
distinction here you could see money
supply year over year change that has
gone down focusing on the gray line but
ultimately the other one is just another
way to measure it
this is M2 when we see this type of data
all I'm highlighting is quite frankly
that the inflation data and
um you know the money supply they go in
hand in hand there's a lot of different
ways to measure money and currency
there's a lot there but this is just one
way M2 and that's money in circulation
so we can see that over time if we are
to pump in a lot of money into the
system of course that's going to have an
impact on the prices of things that we
pay absolutely and services happens to
be the one that seems to be sticking
around now let's talk about the consumer
real quick couple notes paying higher
prices for everything particularly
Services as well as the um you know the
factors that we had seen with rent with
shelter those are the ones that are a
real big problem because you can't just
not afford to have a place to live I
mean just doesn't work like that so they
put all those moratoriums in place those
are all running out the student loans
got to be paid back average 400 a month
you see what's going on I think it's
pretty clear when you look at the
consumer in this regard like you could
look at that in different ways total
dollar value and I'll do that that
doesn't it's not a good indication this
is one this is real average weekly
earnings so your weekly earnings but
in a measurement coming year when you
factor in inflation oh all right so the
last two months
the data that came through showed
positive hey there's actually a little
bit of growth here but that looks to be
reversing and that might go in the
negative again okay inflation is
really sticking around the people's
wages and salaries aren't going up like
they used to I could tell you that much
uh this is just showing us the goods and
services so while Goods have kind of
stagnated in terms of increases in price
that's the top chart up there I hope you
can see that
um the services have continued to go up
look at that look at that blue line and
by the way both of them are off their
Trend they are they are definitely an
accelerating past what we saw in 2020
and then just showing us disposable
income I wanted to make it clear that
over time people just do not have that
disposable income that they once did
okay and the government wants to spend I
can't believe this but anyway
um
like the amount of money so in 2022
fiscal year 2022 the federal government
spend 1.19 trillion dollars on 80
different welfare programs and now they
want to spend 2.6 trillion dollars on
new entitlement spending over 2 trillion
alone for entitlement programs is
unconscionable and that's going to lead
to you gotta understand this
make this very clear you could say we
need you better shut up and all these
things understand when the government
has all of this financing that it has to
do it's got to pay for entitlement
programs it's got to pay for
infrastructure it's got to pay for
everything how does it do that well it
issues these debt like bonds right and
then you have investors that come up and
they buy those bonds number one you've
got a problem if not enough people come
to buy those bonds the Federal Reserve
has to come and buy them monetizing the
debt and devaluing your currency the
second thing is quite frankly during
this process when you have levels of
inflation that are this High you've got
interest rates that are high the
borrowing costs are higher and that puts
more pressure on you the taxpayer the
individual you got to pay that back so
you've got double trouble and you gotta
watch out it is a fine balance in
between these so be careful what you
wish for inflation will real quick I
just wanted to show you apartment rents
hit new high in three New York City
boroughs not surprising looking at it
Rising Global food prices are pretend of
rising inflation just showing us that of
course certainly when people gotta pay
more just for their Basic Essentials
that that has an impact on them China's
ppi is a key driver of U.S consumer
inflation this is pushed forward three
months obviously because when what
happens in China or any other you know
developing Nation that's bringing
products into the U.S China being number
one in that regard you got to see when
their prices are going up like for me
for instance in what I do I'm looking at
wages increasing the warehousing
increasing
um you know just every raw material is
increasing so what happens the products
cost more they cost more to make you
gotta either go out of business or you
increase price that is the exact result
of what we are seeing right here right
now I experienced this myself Thailand's
white rice five percent you look at that
just showing us rice rice prices have
increased uh going on you had floods in
China you got problems elsewhere
restrictions export bends
um some of them anyway in India and so
you could see the price of this going up
that of course affects people their
bottom line simple things are rice and
beans are feeding a lot of people when
the prices rise to this level you got an
issue and then of course the back to
work barometer for New York 46 they've
got a problem with commercial real
estate it's going on here people don't
want to by the way they do not want to
go back to work this survey suggests
people want to stay at home you've got
problems left right and Center here but
I just wanted to make it clear that
there are things that we can do I wrote
These down I want to make it clear what
you've got to do to thrive and prosper
if some things are going up in price
number one you think rice is going to go
up in price simply buy that Rice you can
also buy into the Commodities if you
thought oil was going to go up for one
reason or another you can buy into oil I
mean that's just a matter of fact so
that as it increases that kind of
balances itself out if you believe that
stocks will fall well then you can buy
an inverse ETF so essentially betting
that the markets are going to come down
so however many shares of that you had
bought that would come up and sort of
balance you out you you don't have to
sell okay you don't have to sell
everything and say oh no I'm just going
to sell everything I'm going to stick it
under my mattress and so on no you can
buy an inverse ETF this applies on the
short term only okay if you thought ah
you know what for the next few months
just like in 2020 I kept saying it
you've got to be aware of these things
these are just just some very simple
things that you can do to mitigate some
of the you know the damages that are
going on right now today I hope that was
helpful to you I want to highlight the
comment of the day here it is
what are your thoughts about China's
revaluation of gold this is from Jack
the rabbit music what are your thoughts
about China's revaluation of gold do you
believe America has any gold reserves or
are they just BS in US
all right haven't seen what's going on
inside
there with the reserves right well
answer was essentially that I really
don't believe first of all you had the
uh little munchkin Stephen munchkin he
went in there and he had what I think is
potentially one of the funniest tweets I
was ever done he said something like hey
A-Okay everything's great here like he
went to Fort Knox and just tweeted out
everything is all good with all the
goals here like as if he was there
counting all the bars I mean it's
ridiculous there's no audit that's been
done they they don't no I mean come on
the idea was that they got rid of it
long ago they they leased it out nobody
really knows but it's kind of weird that
they won't even do any sort of you know
they're willing to spend a lot of money
in certain places but they won't just
check and make sure everything's good
you just send a tweet out anyway that's
the the way I see what's going on with
gold I want to thank you for your
comments I'll try to highlight a comment
of the day I want to thank you very much
if you want to interact with me directly
if you want to join over 1 000
like-minded people in this community as
we go into the money GPS 2.0 join me on
Discord totally free I will see you on
Discord so that we can have some
discourse right down there hit that link
in the description and I'll see you
there